This proposal describes how we would add a new field to the install-config during installation to set the load balancer type in AWS either to NLB or ELB. (#1148)
openshift/enhancements: enhancements/installer/aws-load-balancer-type.md

---
title: aws-load-balancer-type
authors:
  - "@miheer"
reviewers:
  - "@wking"  
  - "@Miciah"
  - "@frobware"
  - "@sdodson"
approvers:

>   - "@wking"  

Reviewer: You probably want [an installer approver][1] here instead of me.

[1]: https://github.com/openshift/installer/blob/master/OWNERS_ALIASES

  - "@sdodson"
  - "@frobware"
api-approvers:
  - "@deads"
  - "@Miciah"
tracking-link:
  - "https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NE-942"
creation-date: 2022-06-09
last-updated: 2019-06-09   
status: yet to be implemented
superseded-by:
  - ""
---

# Allow Users to specify Load Balancer Type during installation for AWS

## Release Signoff Checklist

- [ x ] Enhancement is `implementable`
- [ x ] Design details are appropriately documented from clear requirements
- [ x ] Test plan is defined
- [ x ] Graduation criteria for dev preview, tech preview, GA
- [ ] User-facing documentation is created in [openshift-docs](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/)

## Summary

The users would be able to specify the load balancer type either to elb or nlb during installation. 
This will be used to deploy default ingress controller with user-specified load balancer service for OpenShift clusters
running on AWS.

> Currently by default CLB/ELB is set by default by the cluster-ingress-operator.

Reviewer 2: Reword this, default it used too many times

## Motivation

Currently the default load balancer type is set to CLB/ELB. One can set default load balancer during installation using [this](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/networking/configuring_ingress_cluster_traffic/configuring-ingress-cluster-traffic-aws-network-load-balancer.html#nw-aws-nlb-new-cluster_configuring-ingress-cluster-traffic-aws-network-load-balancer).

> However when the default IngressController CR is deleted, default ingress controller is recreated but as an CLB/ELB.

Reviewer: I'm unclear on the motivation here.  The cluster has a default.  Great.  Users can override the default.  Great.  If users delete the resource that holds their override, the cluster reverts to the default.  Makes sense to me.  Why can't a user that says "hey, I actually wanted that NLB; I regret deleting the IngressController" adjust the replacement IngressController to ask for an NLB?

This enhancement is currently suggesting a harder-to-accidentally-delete location to store an install-time choice, and it seems easier for both the administrator and component maintainers to have fewer moving pieces by having the user say "this IngressController isn't configured how I'd like, so I'll adjust its `spec`".

Author: @wking yes but we need the operator to create the ingress controller with the LB type which user/admin desired for default ingress controller. Please check https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NE-799

comment https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NE-799?focusedCommentId=20329711&page=com.atlassian.jira.plugin.system.issuetabpanels%3Acomment-tabpanel#comment-20329711

This  behavior is expected as of now as the ingress operator by default creates CLB for default ingress controller. 
Also if the CR is deleted then the operator wont be able check the information whether NLB is needed or not. 
So, we need to store this information in the cluster object of ingress.

### Goals

As an administrator, I would like to specify the load balancer type in AWS either to NLB or CLB/ELB during installation.
As an user/administrator, when an ingress controller CR is deleted then I would like the ingress controller to be recreated with the load balancer mentioned during installation.
In short I would like the persistence of the load balancer type in the default ingress controller.

### Non-Goals

N/A

## Proposal

We will be adding a field awsLBType in the install-config for the users to provide a load balancer either to NLB or CLB/ELB
during installation.

### Workflow Description

> The installer will accept a LB type from user and then we would set type of LB in the following object.

Reviewer 3: So, would AWSLoadBalancerType in the Ingress CR  https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/master/operator/v1/types_ingress.go#L462 be updated with the value provided in the new field proposed for the install-config?

`oc get ingress.config.openshift.io/cluster -o yaml`

Then we would fetch info from this object and reconcile the operator to have the NLB changes reflected.

### User Stories

#### Story 1

As an admin I want to install a specific load balancer rather than the default CLB/ELB.

#### Story 2

As an admin I want the load balancer type to persist even if the default ingress controller object is deleted which was mentioned during the installation.

### API Extensions

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints

For the install config object we will be adding a field called awsLBType to the [API](https://github.com/openshift/installer/blob/master/pkg/types/aws/platform.go#L7)

It will look as follows -
```go
package aws

import "github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go/aws/endpoints"

// Platform stores all the global configuration that all machinesets
// use.
type Platform struct {

// AwsLBType allows user to set a load balancer type.
// Allowed values are nlb or elb

> AwsLBType string `json:"awsLBType,omitempty"`

Reviewer 2: This is being added to the AWS specific platform struct. The `aws` at the beginning is not necessary. Same applies for all solutions below.

Author: @barbacbd ok.  The main question regarding the API is as to where shall we add the LB type. Shall it be the infra cluster object or ingress cluster object ?  https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/pull/1148/commits/661734713e511f79b1c1477a6317b8675d21491e#diff-a222e3e95fd0b523e[…]89abe29e084502fbd3R108

// AWS contains settings specific to the Amazon Web Services infrastructure provider 
// related to ingress routing.
// +optional
AWS *AWSPlatformSpec `json:"aws,omitempty"`
}

// AWSPlatformSpec holds the desired state of the Amazon Web Services infrastructure provider 
// related to ingress routing.
// This only includes fields that can be modified in the cluster.
type AWSPlatformSpec struct {
// awsLBType is used to set type of the LB either to CLB/ELB or NLB for the 
// default ingress controller in AWS environment.
// +optional

AwsLBType `json:"awsLBType,omitempty"`
}

```

OR

Option 3:
If we set it in the infra then the API will look as follows -
Code will be [here](https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/63b58097a95d1b053cf038f56f89afc42524f598/config/v1/types_infrastructure.go#L351)
```go
// AWSPlatformSpec holds the desired state of the Amazon Web Services infrastructure provider.
// This only includes fields that can be modified in the cluster.
type AWSPlatformSpec struct {
// awsLBType is used to set type of the LB either to CLB/ELB or NLB for the 
// default ingress controller in AWS environment.
// +optional

AwsLBType `json:"awsLBType,omitempty"`	
}

> ```

Author: @barbacbd   The main question regarding the API is as to where shall we add the LB type. Shall it be the infra cluster object or ingress cluster object ?

    region: us-west-2
    awsLBType: nlb
    subnets:
    - subnet-1
    - subnet-2
    - subnet-3
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA...
```

#### Resources created by the installer

- The installer will create ingress cluster object with the load balancer type defined in it.
  Code changes will be made [here](https://github.com/openshift/installer/blob/2d195fb9a0fc7d291a519772a51cf150b82107ad/pkg/asset/manifests/ingress.go#L111)

```yaml
oc get ingress.config.openshift.io/cluster -o yaml     
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2022-04-27T05:28:37Z"
  generation: 1
  name: cluster
  resourceVersion: "26281"
  uid: bc81f07f-7129-4228-964a-903277f481f5
spec:
  awsLBType: nlb
  domain: apps.miheer411t.0427-cez.qe.rhcloud.com
```

- The cluster-ingress-operator will check the cluster ingress object for the awsLBType and reconcile to create an default ingress controller
  with the specified lb type.
  Code changes will be made [here](https://github.com/openshift/cluster-ingress-operator/blob/9ad500df2a5f0037300f3c3f962132bac4d68263/pkg/operator/controller/ingress/load_balancer_service.go#L381)

#### Destroying cluster

> - After destroying the cluster the NLB resources created in the AWS cluster will be deleted.

Reviewer 2: This isn't a change correct? The NLB resources should already be destroyed unless this is a difference resource. The Machine API creates an NLB for the cluster and those resources should be destroyed.

// AWS contains settings specific to the Amazon Web Services infrastructure provider 
// related to ingress routing.
// +optional
AWS *AWSPlatformSpec `json:"aws,omitempty"`
}

// AWSPlatformSpec holds the desired state of the Amazon Web Services infrastructure provider 
// related to ingress routing.
// This only includes fields that can be modified in the cluster.
type AWSPlatformSpec struct {
// awsLBType is used to set type of the LB either to CLB/ELB or NLB for the 
// default ingress controller in AWS environment.
// +optional

LBType `json:"lbType,omitempty"`
}

```

OR

Option 3:
If we set it in the infra then the API will look as follows -
Code will be [here](https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/63b58097a95d1b053cf038f56f89afc42524f598/config/v1/types_infrastructure.go#L351)
```go
// AWSPlatformSpec holds the desired state of the Amazon Web Services infrastructure provider.
// This only includes fields that can be modified in the cluster.
type AWSPlatformSpec struct {
// awsLBType is used to set type of the LB either to CLB/ELB or NLB for the 
// default ingress controller in AWS environment.
// +optional

LBType `json:"lbType,omitempty"`
}
```

> 

Author: @barbacbd @patrickdillon The main question regarding the API is as to where shall we add the LB type. Shall it be the infra cluster object or ingress cluster object ?

As an user/administrator, when an ingress controller CR is deleted then I would like the ingress controller to be recreated with the load balancer mentioned during installation.
In short I would like the persistence of the load balancer type in the default ingress controller.

### Non-Goals

N/A

## Proposal

We will be adding a field awsLBType in the install-config for the users to provide a load balancer either to NLB or CLB/ELB
during installation.

### Workflow Description

The installer will accept a LB type from user and then we would set type of LB in the following object.

`oc get ingress.config.openshift.io/cluster -o yaml`

Then we would fetch info from this object and reconcile the operator to have the NLB changes reflected.

### User Stories

#### Story 1

As an admin I want to install a specific load balancer rather than the default CLB/ELB.

#### Story 2

As an admin I want the load balancer type to persist even if the default ingress controller object is deleted which was mentioned during the installation.

### API Extensions

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints

> For the install config object we will be adding a field called awsLBType to the [API](https://github.com/openshift/installer/blob/master/pkg/types/aws/platform.go#L7)

Reviewer 4: change `awsLBType` to `LBType` here

was set to NLB as ingress operator does not have a way to check the LB type as we don't store it.

The API will look as follows -
Code will be [here](https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/63b58097a95d1b053cf038f56f89afc42524f598/config/v1/types_infrastructure.go#L351)
```go
// AWSPlatformSpec holds the desired state of the Amazon Web Services infrastructure provider.
// This only includes fields that can be modified in the cluster.
type AWSPlatformSpec struct {
// LBType is used to set type of the LB either to CLB/ELB or NLB for the 
// default ingress controller in AWS environment.
// +optional
  LBType string `json:"lbType,omitempty"`
}
```

```go
// AWSPlatformStatus holds the current status of the Amazon Web Services infrastructure provider.
type AWSPlatformStatus struct {
// LBType allows user to set a load balancer type.
// Allowed values are nlb or elb
// +optional
  LBType string `json:"lbType,omitempty"`
}
```

#### Resource provided to the installer

The users provide a load balancer type to the installer.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com
metadata:
  name: test-cluster
platform:
  aws:
    region: us-west-2

>     awsLBType: nlb

Reviewer 4: should be `lbType`

    subnets:
    - subnet-1
    - subnet-2
    - subnet-3
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA...
```

#### Resources created by the installer

- The installer will create ingress cluster object with the load balancer type defined in it.
  Code changes will be made [here](https://github.com/openshift/installer/blob/2d195fb9a0fc7d291a519772a51cf150b82107ad/pkg/asset/manifests/ingress.go#L111)

```yaml
oc get ingress.config.openshift.io/cluster -o yaml     
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  creationTimestamp: "2022-04-27T05:28:37Z"
  generation: 1
  name: cluster
  resourceVersion: "26281"
  uid: bc81f07f-7129-4228-964a-903277f481f5
spec:

>   awsLBType: nlb

Reviewer 4: should be `lbType`

// AWS contains settings specific to the Amazon Web Services infrastructure provider 
// related to ingress routing.
// +optional
AWS *AWSPlatformSpec `json:"aws,omitempty"`
}

// AWSPlatformSpec holds the desired state of the Amazon Web Services infrastructure provider 
// related to ingress routing.
// This only includes fields that can be modified in the cluster.
type AWSPlatformSpec struct {
// LBType is used to set type of the LB either to CLB/ELB or NLB for the 
// default ingress controller in AWS environment.
// +optional
LBType string `json:"lbType,omitempty"`
}

```

OR

Option 3:
If we set it in the infra then the API will look as follows -
Code will be [here](https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/63b58097a95d1b053cf038f56f89afc42524f598/config/v1/types_infrastructure.go#L351)
```go
// AWSPlatformSpec holds the desired state of the Amazon Web Services infrastructure provider.
// This only includes fields that can be modified in the cluster.
type AWSPlatformSpec struct {
// LBType is used to set type of the LB either to CLB/ELB or NLB for the 
// default ingress controller in AWS environment.
// +optional
LBType string `json:"lbType,omitempty"`
}

> ```

Author: @barbacbd @patrickdillon @jstuever The main question regarding the API is as to where shall we add the LB type. Shall it be the infra cluster object or ingress cluster object ? In this enhancement I have proposed 3 options so which one would the installer prefer ? cc @Miciah

Author: I will be using infra object as it seems to have all the cloud related env. So closing this loop as I need to start implementing an urgent epic.

during installation.

### Workflow Description

The installer will accept a LB type from user and then we would set type of LB in the following object.

`oc get ingress.config.openshift.io/cluster -o yaml`

Then we would fetch info from this object and reconcile the operator to have the NLB changes reflected.

### User Stories

#### Story 1

As an admin I want to install a specific load balancer rather than the default CLB/ELB.

#### Story 2

As an admin I want the load balancer type to persist even if the default ingress controller object is deleted which was mentioned during the installation.

### API Extensions

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints

For the install config object we will be adding a field called awsLBType to the [API](https://github.com/openshift/installer/blob/master/pkg/types/aws/platform.go#L7)

It will look as follows -
```go
package aws

import "github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go/aws/endpoints"

// Platform stores all the global configuration that all machinesets
// use.
type Platform struct {

// LBType allows user to set a load balancer type.
// Allowed values are nlb or elb
// +optional
LBType string `json:"lbType,omitempty"`

> }

Reviewer 3: Since this is an optional parameter, will clb/elb continue to be the default values?

Author: If nothing is set then the ingress operator will create a clb/elb.

```

In either the infra config cluster object or ingress config cluster object we will need to add api for AwsLBType which will store and persist the information
of the desired LB type mentioned by the installer config API so that the ingress operator will refer the LB type from this object whenever someone accidentally deletes the ingress controller.
Currently, the default LB type i.e CLB/ELB gets set if you delete the ingress controller object even when the desired the LB type for default ingress controller
was set to NLB as ingress operator does not have a way to check the LB type as we don't store it.

> Option 1:(Recommended as it seems to be having all the cloud related information.)

Reviewer 3: As an Installer reviewer, my vote is for Option 1 as it already seems to have Platform specific config in the the PlatformSpec and PlatformStatus types

Reviewer 3: Based on https://github.com/openshift/installer/pull/6074 and https://github.com/openshift/api/pull/1209, it appears that the implementation is making progress with adding this field to the Infrastructure CR. Could you please update this proposal to reflect that and add Option 2 here to the "Althernatives" section.

Author: @sadasu done

// use.
type Platform struct {

// LBType allows user to set a load balancer type.
// Allowed values are nlb or elb
// +optional
LBType string `json:"lbType,omitempty"`
}
```

In the infra config cluster object we will need to add api for AwsLBType which will store and persist the information
of the desired LB type mentioned by the installer config API so that the ingress operator will refer the LB type from this object whenever someone accidentally deletes the ingress controller.
Currently, the default LB type i.e CLB/ELB gets set if you delete the ingress controller object even when the desired the LB type for default ingress controller
was set to NLB as ingress operator does not have a way to check the LB type as we don't store it.

The API will look as follows -
Code will be [here](https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/63b58097a95d1b053cf038f56f89afc42524f598/config/v1/types_infrastructure.go#L351)
```go
// AWSPlatformSpec holds the desired state of the Amazon Web Services infrastructure provider.
// This only includes fields that can be modified in the cluster.
type AWSPlatformSpec struct {
// LBType is used to set type of the LB either to CLB/ELB or NLB for the 

> // default ingress controller in AWS environment.

Reviewer 5: Should this be on the infrastructure object? Infrastructure to me implies things around the control plane, so i'd expect the internal and external control plane load balancers to be here, but, if this is a workload load balancer, maybe it's better suited somewhere else?

Author: The installer team voted to use infrastructure object.

Author: @JoelSpeed based on our discussions it looks like the right place is ingress cluster object and not the infrastructure cluster object. The default ingresscontroller can have either an internal or external LB. However, The API uses a separate load balancer.
As you mentioned ->
"Should this be on the infrastructure object? Infrastructure to me implies things around the control plane, so i'd expect the internal and external control plane load balancers to be here, but, if this is a workload load balancer, maybe it's better suited somewhere else?"
over here https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/pull/1148#discussion_r932289883

I think ingress cluster object seems to be the right place.

I have made the necessary changes. PTAL.

Copying @sadasu from the installler team as she had voted for this field to be added in the infrastructure object.

// +optional

>   LBType string `json:"lbType,omitempty"`

Reviewer 5: Are you likely to ever want to expand load balancer configuration to handle other options for the NLBs or ELBs? We may want to make this a discriminated union instead

Author: no

Reviewer 5: How can you be certain about that? What are the other relevant Load balancer options that are available from AWS, does the ingress object expose anything?

Author: There are timeout options available for classic but we don't set any options for NLB. However we can have something like 

https://github.com/openshift/api/pull/1209#discussion_r936724881

which you mentioned.

ingress:
  loadBalancer:
    defaultType: NLB

Author: BTW there are options like loadBalancerSourceRanges and Scope for AWS LB types.

In short I would like the persistence of the load balancer type in the default ingress controller.

### Non-Goals

N/A

## Proposal

We will be adding a field `lbType` in the install-config for the users to provide a load balancer either to NLB or CLB/ELB
during installation.

### Workflow Description

The installer will accept a LB type from user and then we would set type of LB in the following object.

`oc get ingress.config.openshift.io/cluster -o yaml`

Then we would fetch info from this object and reconcile the operator to have the NLB changes reflected.

### User Stories

#### Story 1

As an admin I want to install a specific load balancer rather than the default CLB/ELB.

#### Story 2

As an admin I want the load balancer type to persist even if the default ingress controller object is deleted which was mentioned during the installation.

### API Extensions

### Implementation Details/Notes/Constraints

For the install config object we will be adding a field called lbType to the [API](https://github.com/openshift/installer/blob/master/pkg/types/aws/platform.go#L7)

It will look as follows -
```go
package aws

> import "github.com/aws/aws-sdk-go/aws/endpoints"

Reviewer 5: You don't need to include these lines

// Platform stores all the global configuration that all machinesets
// use.
type Platform struct {

  // LBType allows user to set a load balancer type.

>   // Allowed values are NLB or Classic.

Reviewer 5: You should explain what happens when this value is omitted

  // +optional
  LBType configv1.AWSLBType `json:"lbType,omitempty"`
```

> In the ingress config cluster object we will need to add api for AwsLBType which will store and persist the information

Reviewer 5: > AwsLBType

This is out of date

Author: Hi @JoelSpeed ! I am using the https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/master/config/v1/types_ingress.go#L145

Reviewer 5: Right ok

of the desired LB type mentioned by the installer config API so that the ingress operator will refer the LB type from this object whenever someone accidentally deletes the ingress controller.
Currently, the default LB type i.e CLB/ELB gets set if you delete the ingress controller object even when the desired the LB type for default ingress controller
was set to NLB as ingress operator does not have a way to check the LB type as we don't store it.

The API will look as follows -
Code will be [here](https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/63b58097a95d1b053cf038f56f89afc42524f598/config/v1/types_infrastructure.go#L351)
```go

type IngressSpec struct {
// loadBalancer contains the load balancer details in general which are not only specific to the underlying infrastructure
// provider of the current cluster and are required for Ingress Controller to work on OpenShift.
// +optional

> LoadBalancer LoadBalancer `json:"loadbalancer,omitempty"`

Reviewer 5: Indentation is off here and on the other structs, please fix for readability

---
title: aws-load-balancer-type
authors:
  - "@miheer"
reviewers:
  - "@wking"  
  - "@Miciah"
  - "@frobware"
  - "@sdodson"
  - "@candace"
approvers:
  - "@wking"  
  - "@sdodson"
  - "@frobware"
  - "@Miciah"
  - "@candace"
api-approvers:
  - "@deads"
  - "@Miciah"
aws-approvers:
  - "@jstuever"
  - "@patrickdillon"
aws-reviewers:
  - "@jstuever"
  - "@patrickdillon"
installer-approvers:
  - "@jhixson74"
  - "@jstuever"
  - "@patrickdillon"
  - "@staebler"
  - "@sdodson"
  - "@smarterclayton"
installer-reviewers:
  - "@AnnaZivkovic"
  - "@barbacbd"
  - "@jhixson74"
  - "@jstuever"
  - "@kirankt"
  - "@patrickdillon"
  - "@r4f4"
  - "@rna-afk"
  - "@sadasu"
  - "@staebler"
tracking-link:
  - "https://issues.redhat.com/browse/NE-942"
creation-date: 2022-06-09
last-updated: 2019-06-09   
status: yet to be implemented
superseded-by:
  - ""
---

# Allow Users to specify Load Balancer Type during installation for AWS

## Release Signoff Checklist

- [ x ] Enhancement is `implementable`
- [ x ] Design details are appropriately documented from clear requirements
- [ x ] Test plan is defined

> - [ x ] Graduation criteria for dev preview, tech preview, GA

Reviewer 6: This hasn't been fixed.

- [ ] User-facing documentation is created in [openshift-docs](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/)

## Summary

The users would be able to specify the load balancer type either to elb or nlb during installation. 
This will be used to deploy default ingress controller with user-specified load balancer service for OpenShift clusters
running on AWS.

> Currently by default CLB/ELB is set by the cluster-ingress-operator.

Reviewer 6: This hasn't been fixed.

> Currently by default CLB/ELB is set by the cluster-ingress-operator.

Reviewer 6: This hasn't been addressed.

> Currently by default CLB/ELB is set by the cluster-ingress-operator.

Author: This enhancement does not change the default load-balancer type, which is Classic ELB.  --Your suggestion looks good.

## Motivation

> Currently the default load balancer type is set to CLB/ELB. One can set default load balancer during installation using [this](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/networking/configuring_ingress_cluster_traffic/configuring-ingress-cluster-traffic-aws-network-load-balancer.html#nw-aws-nlb-new-cluster_configuring-ingress-cluster-traffic-aws-network-load-balancer).

Reviewer 6: This hasn't been addressed.

    Classic AWSLBType = "Classic"
)
```

#### Resource provided to the installer

The users provide a load balancer type to the installer.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
baseDomain: example.com
metadata:
  name: test-cluster
platform:
  aws:
    region: us-west-2
    lbType: nlb
    subnets:
    - subnet-1
    - subnet-2
    - subnet-3
pullSecret: '{"auths": ...}'
sshKey: ssh-ed25519 AAAA...
```

#### Resources created by the installer

- The installer will create infrastructure cluster object with the load balancer type defined in it.

```yaml
 oc edit ingress.config/cluster -o yaml
 # Please edit the object below. Lines beginning with a '#' will be ignored,
 # and an empty file will abort the edit. If an error occurs while saving this file will be
 # reopened with the relevant failures.
 #
 apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
 kind: Ingress
 metadata:
   creationTimestamp: "2022-08-30T01:03:17Z"
   generation: 11
   name: cluster
   resourceVersion: "60888"
   uid: de89cc95-449e-4ae5-a837-f4171fe61e36
 spec:
   domain: apps.testnlbapi.devcluster.openshift.com
   loadbalancer:
     platform:
       aws:
         type: NLB
       type: AWS
 status:
   componentRoutes:
```

> - The cluster-ingress-operator will check the cluster ingress object for the lbType and reconcile to create an default ingress controller

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- The cluster-ingress-operator will check the cluster ingress config object for the lbType and reconcile to create a default ingress controller
```

  with the specified lbType.

#### Destroying cluster

- None

### Risks and Mitigations

> - Users need to put either nlb or elb as input or else the LB creation will fail.
> 
> - To mitigate this we need to validate the input.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Users need to put either "NLB" or "Classic" as input or else the LB creation will fail.

- To mitigate this we need to validate the input.
```
This might be a good place to mention that there are known issues with using NLBs, such as <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2023681>.

Reviewer 6: I suggested documenting disadvantages to using NLBs, such as <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2023681> in order to forestall questions like this: <https://github.com/openshift/installer/pull/6478#discussion_r992741999>.  Any reason not to document this?

### Drawbacks

None

## Design Details

### Test Plan

> - Set the awsLBType field in the install-config.yaml either to nlb or elb and see if the default ingress controller gets created with the desired LB type.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Set the `lbType` field in the `install-config.yaml` either to "NLB" or "Classic" and see if the default ingress controller gets created with the desired LB type.
```

> - Delete the default ingress controller CR and see if the default ingress controller will be created using the LB type mentioned during installation.

Reviewer 6: Are these going to be E2E tests in openshift/installer or what?

Author: Manual test.

Author: BTW I have already written a unit test case in the installer as well.

- Unit tests and E2E tests will be written.

### Graduation Criteria

*This enhancement will follow standard graduation criteria.

#### Dev Preview -> Tech Preview

- Ability to utilize the enhancement end to end
- End user documentation, relative API stability
- Sufficient test coverage
- Gather feedback from users rather than just developers

#### Tech Preview -> GA

- Community Testing
- Sufficient time for feedback
- Upgrade, Downgrade and scale testing are not relevant to this enhancement

**For non-optional features moving to GA, the graduation criteria must include

> end to end tests.**

Reviewer 6: Are there really any stages to graduating this feature?  We can probably put "N/A".

#### Removing a deprecated feature
None

### Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy
Upgrade won't have issues as far as the installer and OCP version(as ingress operator has the fix) have the feature.

Downgrade to a version of installer and OCP will create CLB/ELB by default.

### Version Skew Strategy
Not applicable.

### Operational Aspects of API Extensions
None

#### Failure Modes

> None

Reviewer 6: Maybe this would be a good place to put the possible failure you mentioned in the "Risks and Mitigations" section: 'Users need to put either "NLB" or "Classic" for `lbType` or omit the field or else the install-config will fail validation.'

#### Support Procedures
- Check the installer logs.
- Check the ingress operator logs.

> - Check the events in the openshift-ingress and openshift-ingress-operator namespace.

Reviewer 6: It isn't clear what this procedure is intended to accomplish.  If the goal is to determine how the ingress operator is determining the default LB type, you could also suggest checking the cluster version or ingress operator version to make sure it is new enough to have the enhancement, using `oc version` or `oc get clusteroperators/ingress -o yaml`, and checking the LB type in the cluster ingress config, using  `oc get ingress.config.openshift.io/cluster -o yaml`.  You could also tell the user how to check the LB type that the operator specified on the service, by checking the appropriate annotations in `oc -n openshift-ingress get svc/router-default -o yaml`.

   uid: de89cc95-449e-4ae5-a837-f4171fe61e36
 spec:
   domain: apps.testnlbapi.devcluster.openshift.com
   loadBalancer:
     platform:
       aws:
         type: NLB
       type: AWS
 status:
   componentRoutes:
```

- The cluster-ingress-operator will check the cluster ingress config object for the lbType and reconcile to create a default ingress controller.
- If the user-specified ingress controller CR does not specify LB type then the LB Type defined in the ingress config will be used for reconcilation
  by the ingress operator to create the LB.

#### Destroying cluster

- None

### Risks and Mitigations

- Users need to put either "NLB" or "Classic" as input or else the LB creation will fail.
- To mitigate this we need to validate the input.

### Drawbacks

None

## Design Details

### Test Plan

- Set the `lbType` field in the `install-config.yaml` either to "NLB" or "Classic" and see if the default ingress controller gets created with the desired LB type.
- Delete the default ingress controller CR and see if the default ingress controller will be created using the LB type mentioned during installation.
- Unit tests and E2E tests will be written.

### Graduation Criteria

> *This enhancement will follow standard graduation criteria.

Reviewer 6: What does this mean?

Author: I will  say N/A

#### Dev Preview -> Tech Preview

- N/A

#### Tech Preview -> GA

- N/A

#### Removing a deprecated feature

None

### Upgrade / Downgrade Strategy

Upgrade won't have issues as far as the installer and OCP version(as ingress operator has the fix) have the feature.

Downgrade to a version of installer and OCP will create CLB/ELB by default.

### Version Skew Strategy

Not applicable.

### Operational Aspects of API Extensions

None

#### Failure Modes

Users need to put either "NLB" or "Classic" for lbType or omit the field or else the install-config will fail validation

#### Support Procedures

If the goal is to determine how the ingress operator is determining the default LB type, you could also suggest checking the 
cluster version or ingress operator version to make sure it is new enough to have the enhancement, using `oc version` or 
`oc get clusteroperators/ingress -o yaml`, and checking the LB type in the cluster ingress config, using `oc get ingress.config.openshift.io/cluster -o yaml`. 
You could also tell the user how to check the LB type that the operator specified on the service, by checking the appropriate 

> annotations in `oc -n openshift-ingress get svc/router-default -o yaml`.

Reviewer 6: The wording here is confusing.  It looks like you just copied and pasted my comment: https://github.com/openshift/enhancements/pull/1148#discussion_r979528038
